50 percent of your hand strength comes from your pinky finger.
An adult has fewer bones than a baby!
Astronauts can grow up to two inches taller in space.
At some point, you may have fought cancer.
Babies only blink once or twice a minute, while adults average 10 times a minute.
Between birth and death, the human body goes from having 300 bones, to just 206.
Chloroform was used as the original anaesthetic. Up until the 1950’s when its toxic effects were discovered.
Cornflakes have more genes than people do.
Did you know that your stomach acid can dissolve razor blades?
Doctors used to inject paraffin to smooth out wrinkles.
Earwax is actually a type of sweat!
Embryos develop fingerprints three months after conception.
Every minute you shed over 30,000 dead skin cells.
Every organ you have two of, you only need one of to survive.
Hearts can beat outside of their bodies.
Humans are bioluminescent, the light just isn’t perceptible to the human eye.
Humans can’t digest grass. Despite health fanatics claiming wheatgrass aids digestion, humans would actually need several more stomachs to digest it, like cows have.
Humans have a “diving reflex” that shuts down bodily functions when submerged in water to prevent drowning.
Humans shed about 600,000 particles of skin every hour.
If you live to age 70, your heart will have beat around 2.5 billion times!
If you smoothed out all of the wrinkles in your brain, it would lay flat the size of a pillowcase.
If you walked for 12 hours a day, it would take the average person 690 days to walk around the world.
In camera terms, the human eye is about 576 megapixels.
In cases of extreme starvation, the brain will begin to eat itself.
In the 20th century, lobotomies were legitimate treatments for various mental health illnesses.
Men’s testicles hang below their bodies because sperm dies at body temperature.
Mercury is toxic to humans but was used for wounds and medical treatments up until the 20th century.
On average you fart enough in one day to fill a party balloon.
One quarter of your bones are in your feet.
Only 10% of your cells are human. The other 90% is made up of 90 trillion microbes that live on you or in you.
“Pregnancy brain” is totally real – Women’s brains actually shrink during pregnancy.
Speaking of the stomach, did you know that you get a new stomach lining every three to four days?
Spread across their lifetime, most people spend an average of one whole year sitting on the toilet.
Stomach acid can dissolve metal. If it touched your skin, it would burn right through it.
Surgeons once believed that bloodletting was beneficial to health. Fevers, apoplexy and headache were thought to be a result of too much blood!
The average nose produces about a cupful of nasal mucus every day!
The average person produces enough saliva in their lifetime to fill two swimming pools.
The body has 2.5 million sweat pores.
The cornea is the only part of the body with no blood supply – it gets its oxygen directly from the air.
The entire surface of your skin is replaced every month, which put another way means you have about 1,000 different skins in your life!
The highest recorded fever ever was 115 degrees Fahrenheit.
The human body contains enough fat to make seven bars of soap.
The jaw muscle is the stongest in the human body.
The on
The only muscle that never tires is the heart.
There are certain kinds of tumors that can grow their own teeth and hair – they’re called teratomas.
There are more than 100,000 miles of blood vessels in your body.
The scientific name for stomach growls is “borborygmus.”
The small intestine is roughly 23 feet long.
The tongue is covered in about 8,000 taste-buds, each containing up to 100 cells helping you taste your food!
Tongue prints are as unique as fingerprints.
We share 98.4% of our DNA with a chimp – and 70% with a slug.
We wee enough wee every month to fill a bath!
When listening to music, your heartbeat will sync with the rhythm.
When you blush, the inside of your stomach does too.
While awake, your brain produces enough electricity to light a lightbulb.
You are about 1cm taller in the morning when you first get up than when you go to bed. This is because during the day the soft cartilage between your bones gets squashed and compressed.
You are taller in the morning than you are at night.
You can’t breathe and swallow at the same time.
You carry, on average, about four pounds of bacteria around in your body.
You might feel like you got a workout, but sex only burns about 3.6 calories a minute.
You produce about 40,000 litres of spit in your lifetime. Or to put it another way, enough spit to fill around five hundred bathtubs – yuck!
Your brain can survive for five to 10 minutes without oxygen.
Your ears and your nose never stop growing.
Your ears never stop growing!
Your eyes blink around 20 times a minute. That’s over ten million times a year!
Your left kidney is higher up than your right kidney.